SQL - Structured Query Language
    - Programming langauge used to interact with RDBMS

RDBMS - Relational Database Management System
    - Stores data in a collection of tables
    - Relations can be defined between the common fields of such tables

    Tables - Rows of a table can be called "Records"
        - Columns of a table can be called "Fields"

Constraints - specify rules governing fields in tables
    Common Constraints:
        NOT NULL - the field can not contain a null value
        CHECK - values in these fields must pass some condition
        DEFAULT - defines a value that is automatially assigned to a field if no value is provided
        UNIQUE - the field must contain unique values, meaning another field can not contain the same value
            - can be multiple per table
        INDEX - the field is given an index for quick-lookup/fast retrieval of records
            Types:
                Unique - help maintain data integrity by ensuring no two rows of data have identical values
                Non-Unique - not used to enforce constrains on tables, but may be used to improve query performance
                Clustered - order of rows in the database corresponds to order of rows in the index
                    - only one may exist in a table
                    - modifies record storage based on indexed Columns
                    - quick retrieval of data
                Non-Clustered - 
                    - multiple may exist in a table
                    - creates a separate table entity that references the original table
                    - slower

        PRIMARY KEY - specifies that a field will uniquely identify some record
            - must be unique, and not null by default
            - may be comprised of one or more fields
            - one per table
        FOREIGN KEY - specifies that the field of one table is the primary key field of another table
            - may be comprised of one or more fields
            - ensures "referential integrity"

JOINS - clauses used to combine the records of multiple tables based on some common field(s)
    *think venn diagram*

    (INNER) JOIN - retrieves records with matching values in both tables
    LEFT JOIN - retrieves records from the left and matched records from the right
    RIGHT JOIN - retrieves records from the right and matched records from the left
    FULL (OUTER) JOIN - retrieves all records matching either left or right

    SELF JOIN - when a single table is joined to itself based on the relation of its own fields
        - does not include a JOIN clause
            EX.
                SELECT a.data AS "something", b.data AS "somethingelse"
                    FROM tablename a, tablename b
                    WHERE a.data = b.data

    CROSS JOIN - cartesian product of two tables
        - with a where clause this is the same as INNER JOIN
    
Data Integrity - accuracy and consistency of data over its life-cycle.
    - may enforce business rules on data when entered into an application

Query - request for data from the database
    Select Query - Retrieve some data
    Action Query - Update some data

Subquery - also known as nested or inner query.
    - used to restrict or enchance data queried by the main query

    Correlated - not an independent query, can refer to fields from the table in FROM of the main query.

    Non-Correlated - independent query, output of the subquery is substituted in the main query.

SELECT - Query operator that returns a"result-set" of data from selected tables in the database
    Common Clauses:
        WHERE
        ORDERBY
            ASC
            DESC
        GROUPBY
            HAVING

    UNION - combines and returns the result-set retrieved by two or more SELECT statements
    UNION ALL - includes duplicates
    MINUS - used to remove duplicates from two sets of data selected with separate SELECT clauses
    INTERSECT - returns the matched result set of two SELECT clauses
    
    DROP - removes all information associated with those tables including relationships defined in that table
        and other tables, integrity checks, constraints and access priveledges.
    - v.s. - 
    DELETE - deletes only the specified rows of a table based on a condition in a WHERE clause, all rows if no
        where claus is provided. Does not free space containing the table.
    - v.s. -
    TRUNCATE - removes all data (rows) from a table. Frees the space containing the table.


Cursor - control structure that allows records to be traversed in a database.
    - allows processing after traversal: retrieval, addition, and deletion

Entity - data that correlates to some real-world object, tangible or intangible, that is identifiable.
    Example: students, professors, workers, departments, projects
    - Has associated properties that provide some identity

Relationship - links between entities that have something to do with each other
    Example: employees table may be associated with salary table.

    Types:
        One-to-One: each record in one table is associated with the maximum of one record in the other table
        One-to-Many & Many-to-One: each records in one table is associated with multiple records in another table
        Many-to-Many: multiple records in both tables are needed to define this relationship
        Self-Referencing Relationships: table defines a relationship within itself

Alias - temporary name assigned to a table or column for the purpose of a query.
    - may work similarly to a variable.

View - virtual table based on the result-set of an SQL statement

Normalization - method of organizing structured data efficiently.
    - comprised of a set of rules or "forms" that dictate things like:
        . how tables should be created
        . how relationships should be established
    - reduces inconsistency and redundancy
    - improves flexibility

    Forms:
        First Normal Form - every attribute is a single-valued attribute. No column contains more than one value.
        Second Normal Form - first normal and contains no partial dependencies. Tables are created to ensure that non-prime attributes do not depend on candidate keys.
            Ex. separate a table for Books and a table for students instead of using one students table
        Third Normal Form - second normal form and no transitive dependency. Non-prime attributes do not depend on each other.
        Boyce-Codd Normal Form - third normal form an conditions for functional dependency

Denormalization - inverse process of normalization, normalized schema may be converted into a schema with redundant information
    - used when database may be "over-normalized" created too much overhead for the query processor


Aggregate Functions - performs operations on a collection of values to return a single scalar value
    AVG()
    COUNT()
    MIN()
    MAX()
    SUM()
    FIRST()
    LAST()
Scalar Functions - return a single value based on the input value
    LEN()
    UCASE()
    LCASE()
    MID()
    CONCAT()
    RAND()
    ROUND()
    NOW()
    FORMAT()

User-Defined Functions - accept parameters, perform calculations, and return a value.
    Table-Valued Functions: return a table as output.
        Inline: returns a table data type based on a single SELECT statement

        Multi-Statement: returns a tabular result-set, multiple SELECT statements may be used inside the function body


OLTP - Online Transaction Processing - software applications capable of supporting transaction-oriented programs.
    - ability to maintain concurrency
    - decentralized, avoiding single points of failure
    - designed for a large number of users who conduct short transactions

OLAP - Online Analytical Processing - software applications that are characterized tby the relatively low frequency of online transactions.
    - queries may be complex and involve a lot of aggregations
    - effectiveness relies on response time
    - designed for data mining or maintaining aggregated historical data

Collation - set of rules that determine how data is sorted and compared
    Collation Sensitivity:
        Case Sensitivity
        Accent
        Kana
        Width

Stored Procedure - subroutine available to applications that access an RDBMS
    - stored in the database data dictionary
    - can only be executed in the database and occupies more memory in the database server
    - users who can't access data directly can be granted accress via stored procedures

Recursive Stored Procedure - 
    - allows programmers to deploy the same set of code several times as required
    - may be limited by some SQL languages to prevent stack overflow

INTO --> Operator that allows data to be copied
    - can be used to copy the table structure of another table with or without the data

Pattern Matching - 
    % - wildcard matching zero or more characters of any type, can be used both before and after a Pattern
    NOT - matching patters not including the specified pattern
    %% - matching patters containing any number of occurances of a sequence
    _ - matching patterns with a specific length, or number of characters
